samples: bluetooth: ISO combined BIS and CIS (#14563)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/iso_combined_bis_and_cis/README.rst

.. _bluetooth_isochronous_combined_bis_and_cis:

Bluetooth: ISO Combined BIS and CIS
#####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth® Combined BIS and CIS sample demonstrates capability of
a Controller to support both Broadcast Isochronous Stream (BIS) and Connected Isochronous Stream (CIS) and
can be used to learn ISO-specific APIs to create stream, receive and send data over either CIS or BIS.
Note: the sample uses the simplest way to send data over ISO without using timestamps through a single stream,

> therefore it doesn't demonstrate any capabilities of synchronization multiple streams.

Author: Thank, I added a link here

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

.. include:: /includes/tfm.txt

You can use any of the development kits listed above and mix different development kits.

.. include:: /includes/hci_ipc_overlay.txt

The sample also requires a connection to a computer with a serial terminal |ANSI| for each of the development kits.

Overview
********

> The sample demonstrates a device combining CIS Central and BIS Source.

Reviewer: I'm missing a description of what the sample actually does. I propose to move the description from line 84ff up here.

Author: Thank you, I added a very short description here.
Do you think it is ok now, or it makes sense to provide more detailed explanation?

As a CIS Central, it only implements receiving of data from CIS Peripheral.
In order to provide the best performance and minimize number of conflicts between CIS, BIS and ACL packets the following measures are taken:
* The same ISO Interval is used for both CIS and BIS. The value is set to 10 ms by default.
* ACL Interval is set to integer multiple of ISO Interval to avoid collisions. The value is set to 20 ms by default.
* Periodic advertising of BIS is set to the same value as ACL Interval.
* Number of retransmissions is set to a high value - 10, to ensure that packets are retransmitted in case of collisions.
* The sample as Central rejects incoming Connection Update requests to avoid changing the ACL Interval value.
* In addition the following optional SDC-specific configurations are used:

>    * CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_CENTRAL_ACL_EVENT_SPACING_DEFAULT is set to 10 ms to ensure that periodic advertising packet is set in between ACL packets.

Reviewer: Use :kconfig:option: to get links to the KConfigs

Author: Thanks, I added :kconfig:option::)

   * CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_MAX_CONN_EVENT_LEN_DEFAULT is set to a small value 2.5 ms because the sample doesn't send any data over ACL connection (except Control procedures).
   * CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_BIG_RESERVED_TIME_US is set to a half of ISO Interval to ensure BIG parameters are selected in a way leaving enough time for ACL and CIG.
   * CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_CIG_RESERVED_TIME_US is set to a half of ISO Interval to ensure CIG parameters are selected in a way leaving enough time for ACL and BIG.

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_combined_bis_and_cis`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

Testing
=======

The sample requires two devices in addition:
* CIS Peripheral device that sends data over CIS.
* BIS Sink device that receives data over BIS.

> Other sample application can be used as CIS Peripheral and BIS Sink.

Reviewer: link the other sample here.

Author: Thanks, added a link to the other sample here :)

> CIS Peripheral device should have the same name as the name set in CONFIG_BT_DEVICE_NAME.

Reviewer: Meaning central and peripheral device have the same name?
Could we instead define the name of the peripheral in source?

Author: We can, but I use the same approach we have in `iso_time_sync` sample for consistency

[00:00:00.459,777] <inf> app_bis_cis: CIS central started scanning for peripheral(s)
[00:00:00.593,078] <inf> app_bis_cis: Connected: FB:DC:75:C0:18:0A (random)
[00:00:00.593,597] <inf> app_bis_cis: Connecting ISO channel
[00:00:00.600,189] <inf> app_bis_cis: BIS transmitter started
[00:00:00.607,879] <inf> app_iso_tx: ISO TX Channel connected
[00:00:00.608,459] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 0
[00:00:00.741,577] <inf> app_iso_rx: ISO RX Channel connected
[00:00:01.449,615] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 100
[00:00:01.731,140] <inf> app_iso_rx: Received SDU: 100, empty SDU: 0, missed SDU: 0
[00:00:02.449,645] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 200
[00:00:02.731,140] <inf> app_iso_rx: Received SDU: 200, empty SDU: 0, missed SDU: 0
[00:00:03.449,615] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 300
[00:00:03.731,140] <inf> app_iso_rx: Received SDU: 300, empty SDU: 0, missed SDU: 0
[00:00:04.449,615] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 400
[00:00:04.731,140] <inf> app_iso_rx: Received SDU: 400, empty SDU: 0, missed SDU: 0
[00:00:05.449,645] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 500

References
***********

> For more information about the scheduling of different types of packets refer to the `SDC Scheduling Documentation`_.

Reviewer: yes. What I wanted to say is:
Is it possible to solve this with a reference like :ref:`softdevice_controller_iso` instead of adding it to links.txt. I think that might be a more stable solution to the problem because:
1. The link would still work even if the URL changes
2. The link might be version specific and not always point to the "latest" version of the doc.

> For more information about the scheduling of different types of packets refer to the `SDC Scheduling Documentation`_.

Author: Thank you, I misunderstood your initial comment. I replaced the link with `:ref:`softdevice_controller_scheduling``

.. _bluetooth_isochronous_combined_bis_and_cis:

Bluetooth: ISO Combined BIS and CIS
#####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth® Combined BIS and CIS sample demonstrates the capability of
a Controller to support both Broadcast Isochronous Stream (BIS) and Connected Isochronous Stream (CIS) and
can be used to learn ISO-specific APIs to create stream, receive and send data over either CIS or BIS.
The sample acts as a Central device that receives data over CIS and forwards the received data to a BIS.

Note: The sample uses the simplest way to send data over ISO without using timestamps through a single stream.

> Therefore, it doesn't demonstrate any capabilities of synchronization multiple streams.

Author: Thanks, I removed this sentence completely

* The same ISO Interval is used for both CIS and BIS. The value is set to 10 ms by default.
* ACL Interval is set to an integer multiple of ISO Interval to avoid collisions. The value is set to 20 ms by default.
* Periodic advertising of BIS is set to the same value as ACL Interval.
* The number of retransmissions is set to a high value - 10, to ensure that packets are retransmitted in case of collisions.
* The sample as Central rejects incoming Connection Update requests to avoid changing the ACL Interval value.
* In addition, the following optional SDC-specific configurations are used:
   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_CENTRAL_ACL_EVENT_SPACING_DEFAULT` is set to 10 ms to ensure that periodic advertising packet is set in between ACL packets.
   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_MAX_CONN_EVENT_LEN_DEFAULT` is set to a small value 2.5 ms because the sample doesn't send any data over ACL connection (except Control procedures).
   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_BIG_RESERVED_TIME_US` is set to half of ISO Interval to ensure BIG parameters are selected in a way leaving enough time for ACL and CIG.

>    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_CIG_RESERVED_TIME_US` is set to half of ISO Interval to ensure CIG parameters are selected in a way leaving enough time for ACL and BIG.

Author: There is a link to scheduling documentation at the end of README

.. _bluetooth_isochronous_combined_bis_and_cis:

Bluetooth: ISO Combined BIS and CIS
#####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth® Combined BIS and CIS sample demonstrates the capability of

> a Controller to support both Broadcast Isochronous Stream (BIS) and Connected Isochronous Stream (CIS) simultaneously.

Author: thanks, I fixed it

> It shows ISO-specific APIs to create a stream and to receive and send data over either CIS or BIS.

Author: thanks, I fixed it

The sample acts as a Central device that receives data over CIS and forwards the received data to a BIS.

> Note: The sample uses the Time of Arrival method to send data over ISO without using timestamps through a single stream (see :ref:`iso_providing_data`).

Reviewer 2: Suggested change: `Note: The sample uses the Time of Arrival method to send data over ISO over a single stream (see :ref:`iso_providing_data`).`

> The :ref:`bluetooth_isochronous_time_synchronization` sample can be used to learn how to synchronize data using ISO channels.

Reviewer 2: Suggested change: `The :ref:`bluetooth_isochronous_time_synchronization` sample demonstrates how synchronize data sent on multiple ISO streams.`

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

.. include:: /includes/tfm.txt

> You can use any of the development kits listed above and mix different development kits.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To test the sample, you need two additional devices.
You can use any of the development kits listed above and mix different development kits.
```

.. include:: /includes/hci_ipc_overlay.txt

The sample also requires a connection to a computer with a serial terminal |ANSI| for each of the development kits.

Overview
********

The sample demonstrates a device combining the CIS Central and BIS Source roles.

> As a CIS Central, it only receives data from CIS Peripheral.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a CIS Central, it only receives data from CIS Peripherals.
```
Could also be "a CIS Peripheral".

> The received data is then broadcasted over a BIS.
> To provide the best performance and to minimize the number of conflicts between the CIS, BIS and ACL roles, the following measures are taken:
> * The same ISO Interval is used for both CIS and BIS. The value is set to 10 ms by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The received data is then broadcasted over a BIS.

To provide the best performance and to minimize the number of conflicts between the CIS, BIS and ACL roles, the following measures are taken:

* The same ISO interval is used for both CIS and BIS.
  The value is set to 10 ms by default.
```
The only change in addition to the the linebreaks is "Interval" -> "interval", since it's not capitalized on the SDC page.

> * ACL Interval is set to an integer multiple of ISO Interval to avoid collisions. The value is set to 20 ms by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* ACL interval is set to an integer multiple of ISO interval to avoid collisions.
  The value is set to 20 ms by default.
```

> * Periodic advertising of BIS is set to the same value as ACL Interval.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Periodic advertising of the BIS is set to the same value as the ACL interval.
```

* The number of retransmissions is set to 10, to ensure that packets are retransmitted in case of collisions.
* The sample rejects incoming Connection Update requests from the peripheral to avoid changes to the ACL interval.

> * In addition, the following optional SDC-specific configurations are used:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The following optional Kconfig options specific to the SoftDeviceController are used:

```
Note the empty line before the indented bullet list.

   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_CENTRAL_ACL_EVENT_SPACING_DEFAULT` is set to 10 ms to ensure that there is enough time available to place the periodic advertising packet between ACL packets.

>    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_MAX_CONN_EVENT_LEN_DEFAULT` is set to a small value 2.5 ms because the sample doesn't send any data over ACL connection (except Control procedures).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_MAX_CONN_EVENT_LEN_DEFAULT` is set to a small value 2.5 ms because the only data the sample sends over the ACL connection is Control procedures.
```

>    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_BIG_RESERVED_TIME_US` is set to half of the ISO Interval to ensure BIG parameters are selected in a way leaving enough time for ACL and CIG.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_BIG_RESERVED_TIME_US` is set to half of the ISO interval to ensure the BIG parameters are selected in a way that leaves enough time for ACL and CIG.
```

>    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_CIG_RESERVED_TIME_US` is set to half of the ISO Interval to ensure CIG parameters are selected in a way leaving enough time for ACL and BIG.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CTLR_SDC_CIG_RESERVED_TIME_US` is set to half of the ISO interval to ensure CIG parameters are selected in a way that leaves enough time for ACL and BIG.
```

Building and running

> ********************
> .. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_combined_bis_and_cis`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_combined_bis_and_cis`
```

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_ns.txt

Testing
=======

> In addition to the device running this sample, two additional devices are required:
> * CIS Peripheral device that sends data over CIS.
> * BIS Sink device that receives data over BIS.
> Other sample applications can be used as CIS Peripheral and BIS Sink (for example, :ref:`bluetooth_isochronous_time_synchronization`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to the device running this sample, two additional devices are required:

* CIS Peripheral device that sends data over CIS.
* BIS Sink device that receives data over BIS.

You can use other samples, such as the :ref:`bluetooth_isochronous_time_synchronization` sample, as the CIS Peripheral and BIS Sink instead of using this sample on all devices.
```
I think the meaning of the last sentence is correct, but please check.

Also, I'm pretty sure that this information should be in the Requirements section, probably integrated with the information on combining different development kits.

> CIS Peripheral device should have the same name as the name set in :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DEVICE_NAME`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The CIS Peripheral device should have the same name as the name set in the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DEVICE_NAME` Kconfig option of this sample.
```

This name is used to connect to the correct device.

> After programming the sample to the development kit and programming other samples to CIS Peripheral device and BIS sink device, perform the following steps to test it:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After programming the sample to the development kit and programming other samples to the CIS Peripheral device and BIS sink device, perform the following steps to test it:
```

Author: thanks, I fixed it

1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the kits.

> #. Wait until the sample connected to CIS Peripheral device and established CIS connection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Wait until the sample connects to CIS Peripheral device and establishs a CIS connection.
```

> #. Observe packets transmitted by CIS Peripheral to be retransmitted over BIS and received by BIS Sink.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Observe the packets transmitted by the CIS Peripheral being retransmitted over BIS and received by the BIS Sink.
```

Author: thanks, I fixed it

Sample output
==============

> [00:00:00.454,589] <inf> bt_hci_core: HW Platform: Nordic Semiconductor (0x0002)

Reviewer 3: This data should be in a `.. code-block::`

Also, you need to add a Dependencies section between this section and the References section.

Author: thanks, I added Dependencies and also added code-block section

[00:00:00.454,620] <inf> bt_hci_core: HW Variant: nRF53x (0x0003)
[00:00:00.454,650] <inf> bt_hci_core: Firmware: Standard Bluetooth controller (0x00) Version ... Build ...
[00:00:00.456,329] <inf> bt_hci_core: Identity: FD:DD:D6:88:AF:D4 (random)
[00:00:00.456,359] <inf> bt_hci_core: HCI: version 5.4 (0x0d) revision ..., manufacturer 0x0059
[00:00:00.456,390] <inf> bt_hci_core: LMP: version 5.4 (0x0d) subver ...
[00:00:00.456,390] <inf> app_main:
Bluetooth ISO Combined BIS and CIS sample

The sample demonstrates data transfer over Bluetooth ISO
CIS and BIS using the following topology:

┌------┐     ┌-------┐      ┌--------┐
|      |ISO  |  CIS  | ISO  |        |
| CIS  ├----►|Central├-----►|BIS Sink|
|Periph|CIS  |+ BIS  | BIS  |        |
|      |     |Source |      |        |
└------┘     └-------┘      └--------┘
  (1)           (2)            (3)
The sample only operates as a device 2: Combined CIS Central + BIS Source

> Please, use other samples as a CIS Peripheral (TX) and BIS Sink (RX) devices.

Reviewer 2: Can we list some or any concrete examples that may be used?

Author: It is already described in a Readme, I think it is sufficient

[00:00:00.456,420] <inf> app_main: Starting combined CIS Central + BIS Source
[00:00:00.459,777] <inf> app_bis_cis: CIS central started scanning for peripheral(s)
[00:00:00.593,078] <inf> app_bis_cis: Connected: FB:DC:75:C0:18:0A (random)
[00:00:00.593,597] <inf> app_bis_cis: Connecting ISO channel
[00:00:00.600,189] <inf> app_bis_cis: BIS transmitter started
[00:00:00.607,879] <inf> app_iso_tx: ISO TX Channel connected
[00:00:00.608,459] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 0
[00:00:00.741,577] <inf> app_iso_rx: ISO RX Channel connected
[00:00:01.449,615] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 100
[00:00:01.731,140] <inf> app_iso_rx: Received SDU: 100, empty SDU: 0, missed SDU: 0
[00:00:02.449,645] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 200
[00:00:02.731,140] <inf> app_iso_rx: Received SDU: 200, empty SDU: 0, missed SDU: 0
[00:00:03.449,615] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 300
[00:00:03.731,140] <inf> app_iso_rx: Received SDU: 300, empty SDU: 0, missed SDU: 0
[00:00:04.449,615] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 400
[00:00:04.731,140] <inf> app_iso_rx: Received SDU: 400, empty SDU: 0, missed SDU: 0

> [00:00:05.449,645] <inf> app_iso_tx: Sent SDU, counter: 500

Reviewer 2: Can we perhaps state that this is an example output log from the sample?

.. _bluetooth_iso_combined_bis_cis:

Bluetooth: ISO combined BIS and CIS
###################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The Bluetooth® ISO combined BIS and CIS sample demonstrates the capability of a Controller to support both Broadcast Isochronous Stream (BIS)
> and Connected Isochronous Stream (CIS) simultaneously when using the LE Isochronous Channels (ISO) feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Bluetooth® ISO combined BIS and CIS sample demonstrates the capability of a Controller to support both Broadcast Isochronous Stream (BIS) and Connected Isochronous Stream (CIS) simultaneously when using the LE Isochronous Channels (ISO) feature.
```

Author: Thank you! I fixed it :)

The sample acts as a Central device that receives data over CIS and forwards the received data to a BIS.

.. note::
   The sample uses the Time of Arrival method to send data over ISO without using timestamps through a single stream (see the :ref:`nrfxlib:iso_providing_data` section in the SoftDevice Controller documentation for more information).
   The :ref:`bluetooth_isochronous_time_synchronization` sample can be used to learn how to synchronize data using ISO channels.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

.. include:: /includes/tfm.txt

To test the sample, you need two additional devices.
You can use any of the development kits listed above and mix different development kits.

.. include:: /includes/hci_ipc_overlay.txt

The sample also requires a connection to a computer with a serial terminal |ANSI| for each of the development kits.

Overview
********

The sample demonstrates a device combining the CIS Central and BIS Source roles.
As a CIS Central, it only receives data from a CIS Peripheral.
The received data is then broadcasted over a BIS.

> To provide the best performance and to minimize the number of conflicts between the CIS, BIS and ACL roles, the following measures are taken:
> * The same ISO interval is used for both CIS and BIS.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To provide the best performance and to minimize the number of conflicts between the CIS, BIS and ACL roles, the following measures are taken:

* The same ISO interval is used for both CIS and BIS.
```

Author: Thank you! I fixed it :)
